# Enhanced-solar-tracking-through-multi-based-data-normalization

The demand for clean and sustainable energy has increased the popularity of photovoltaic (PV) solar panels. PV solar panels are the most effective technology for transforming the sun’s rays into a valuable energy source. To maximize the amount of energy captured, the rays of light from the sun must be at a 90-degree angle to the surface of the PV panel. To accomplish this, PV panels are modified with solar trackers that can effectively track the sun’s position as it shifts during the day. Due to the randomness and nonlinearity of metrological data, using deep learning (DL) algorithms to enhance solar trackers has gained much popularity among researchers. To further improve the performance, Hybrid DL methods have also been proposed. In some cases, normalization methods are also used to improve model performance. However, given the varying nature of metrological data, existing models sometimes fail to perform satisfactorily. This paper proposes a combination of feature extension and feature extraction. In the context of feature extension, the sigmoid-decimal scaling (S-DS) method combines sigmoid and decimal scaling methods to leverage the two methods’ strengths. The model also used a convolutional neural network (CNN) for feature extraction and long short-term memory (LSTM) model for prediction. 

### Reference:

Phiri, M., Mulenga, M., Zimba, A., Eke, C.I., 2023. Deep learning techniques for solar tracking systems: A systematic literature review, research challenges, and open research directions. Sol. Energy 262, 111803. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2023.111803

Terrén-Serrano, G., Bashir, A., Estrada, T., Martínez-Ramón, M., 2021. Girasol, a sky imaging and global solar irradiance dataset. Data Brief 35, 106914. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2021.106914
